## Basic types

1. nil
2. boolean
3. number
4. string
5. userdata
6. function
7. thread
8. table

`print(type(10)) --> number` function `type()` returns a string describing the type.  

`a = print` is legal.  

## nil

nil, i.e. non-value.

## boolean

`false` or `true`.

Lua regards `false` and `nil` as *false*, while all the other is regarded as *true*, including
even number `0` and empty strings.

## number

There is no `integer` type in Lua by default, unless lua is reconfigured and then compiled.
`luaconf.h`

example for number:
```
1    0.1    1.2e3 4.5e+6 7.8e-9
```

## string

Any binary data can be squashed into a lua string.

lua strings can't be modified like that in C, i.e. lua strings are immutable values.

```
a = "one string"
b = string.gsub (a, "one", "another")
print (a) --> "one string"
print (b) --> "another string"
```

memory allocation and release for e.g. strings and tables, are managed by lua automatically.

```
a = "line"
b = 'another line'
```

you can pick and stick to one string style.

Escape sequeces in lua are similar to those in C.

`"\010"` is equivalent to `"\n"` because they have the same ASCII code.

another string enclosure method
```
page = [[
	<html>
	...
	</html>
	]]
```
which is very useful when your varible is containing code, and escape sequnces in it are not
being processed.

another way to enclose comments
```
--[=[
	xxxx
	--]=]
```

lua provides automatic `aton` conversion, e.g.
```
print ("10" + 1) --> 11
print ("10 + 1") --> "10 + 1"
print ("1" + "1") --> 2
print ("HELLO" + 1) --> error
```

in lua, `..` is a symbol for string concatenation.
```
print (10 .. 20) -> "1020"
```

explicit conversion from string to number is `tonumber()`, while 
the reverse is `tostring()`
```
print (tostring(10) == "10") --> true
print (10 .. "" == "10")     --> true
```

operator `#` is used to get the length of a string
```
a = "asdf"
= #a
4
```

## table

associative array, can be indexed not only by integers, but also
by strings or some others except for nil.

```
a = {} -- create a new table, and store its reference to a
k = "x" -- key
a[k] = 10 -- key is k, value is 10
a[20] = "great" -- key is 20, value is "great"
```

table is permanently anonymous.
```
a = {} -- create new table
a = nil -- no reference to table, telling GC (garbage collector) to delete this unreferenced table.
```

syntactic sugar for table
```
a.x = 10 -- equivalent to a["x"] = 10
```

lua index is usually started from 1.  

operator `#` can be used to get the size of a linear list.
```
for i = 1, #a do
	print (a[i])
end
```

some common usages
```
print (a[#a]) -- print the last value of list a
a[#a] = nil   -- delete the last one
a[#a+1] = v   -- append v to the end of list
```

sometimes operator `#` is not safe for users to get the size of a table.
function `table.maxn()` returns the maximium (positive) index number of a table, safely.

It it noted that `a[1]`, `a["1"]`, `a["01"]` refers different values.

## Functions

Lua is able to call not only functions written in Lua, but also those written in C.
functions will be later explained with detail.

## userdata and thread
...

