## Lua debug library

This lib consists 2 kinds of functions  
1. introspective function, for runtime debuggin e.g. function stack, current line, local variable names and values.  
2. hook, for tracing programs.  

New concept *stack level*, a number stands for current number of functions that was called but still not returned.

## introspective mechanism

main function `debug.getinfo(foo)`, which returns a table containing debug information.
the table contains following fields  
1. `source` function definition location  
2. `short_src` short version of source  
3. `linedefined` the first line number of this function  
4. `lastlinedefined` the last line number of this function  
5. `what` function type, in `"C"` or `"Lua"`.  
6. `name` function name.  
7. `namewhat` the meaning of last field  
8. `nups` the quantitive of upvalue of this function  
9. `activelines` a table containing all active lines in this function (introduced in Lua5.1)  
10. `func` function itself.  

when `foo` in `debug.getinfo(foo)` is a function, its returned table contains only
what, name, and namewhat which are meaningful.

when `foo` is a number, representing stack layer, its returned table contains
`currentline` field additionally.

efficiency of function `getinfo` is low. For better performance,
it provides the second, optional argument which can be one of following  
1. 'n' choose name and namewhat  
2. 'f' choose func  
3. 'S' choose source, short\_src, what, linedefined and lastlinedefined  
4. 'l' choose currentline  
5. 'L' choose activelines  
6. 'u' choose nups  

example
```
function traceback ()
	for level = 1, math.huge do
		local info = debug.getinfo (level, "Sl")
		if not info then break end
		if info.what == "C" then
			print (level, "C function")
		else -- a lua function
			print (string.format ("[%s]:%d", info.short_src, info.currentline))
		end
	end
end
```

users can use `debug.traceback()`, which returns a string and echos nothing.

#### access local variables
placeholder

#### access non-local variables
placeholder

#### access other coroutine
placeholder

## Hooks

Four kinds of events cound trigger a hook
1. call  
2. return  
3. line  
4. count  

To register a hook, `debug.sethook(hookfunction, "EVENT", [optional] count_event_interval)`

e.g.
```
debug.sethook(print, "l")
```
another e.g.
```
function trace (event, line)
	local s = debug.getinfo(2).short_src
	print(s .. ":" .. line)
end
debug.sethook(trace, "l")
```

## profile

placeholder
